# 2025-10-22 Wednesday

Hey @everyone  🎃 #HUNTOBER CONTINUES 🎃 with A MIDWEEK HUDDLE UP in 60 minutes (2:30 PM your local time)

Come ask all your #THEHUNT related questions live and learn from folx landing interviews and getting offers! 

:bluedot: THURSDAY (aka tomorrow):  DAY OF ACTION!! 

:bluedot: FRIDAY: 🍵 TEASPILL


:heartrainbow: If you haven't already given it a listen, @Dthompsondev ~Mayanwolfe can DM~ & I recorded a podcast with Kent C. Dodds breaking down "How GREAT Senior Software Engineers Think!": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kEIG3n5W8_Q


:ricflair: We'll be meeting every day at 5:30pm ET Monday - Friday for 60 minutes. 

✨ LOCK IN - YOU OWE YOU - GIVE YOURSELF 30 DAYS to change the NEXT 30 YEARS ✨ 

👉🏾 Join here: https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1430651445878984826

👉🏾 And ask your #HUNTOBER2025 RELATED questions here: https://app.sli.do/event/1xyRvnJUA5N3wosrR8aDb1

## First message

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1430603405805617362

## Notes



## Chat

- Straine — When you have a decent amount of experience, you won't have enough room on your resume for all of it.  Put the stuff that's most relevant and talk about the other stuff in the interview from the Banki questions.
    - I have a ten year gap on my resume, haven't had a full-time job since 2016.  Traveled the world -> covid hit -> family matters -> 100Devs and freelancing.  It's never been questioned.
    - "I decided that rather than wait until my winter years, when I'm unable to do some of the things I wanted to do in my life (like sports, music, travel, whatever you like) while I was still young and healthy.  So I took some time off to do those things." is a really human response
        - _GDaemon_Class 12 — it is also true. 20 and early 30's are best years that one will never get back
    - Some of my previous engineering work (aerospace) was from the late 00s and early 2010s so I kind of have to when I put my best foot forward.  I went from there to teaching, then the gap comes in just before covid, so it makes sense for me to have the gap there.  So I do!
    - That's an easy story.  Nobody is going to question "I took some time off for family, those young years are years you can never get back.  But, I was using tech the whole time making apps to organize my hectic life with kids (100hours project?) and got the itch when they got older to get into tech helping more people"
    - Always remember that most of management is going to be in their 40s/50s and have families themselves.  It's a great way to bond, because they'll understand the importance.
- ⭒☆ Celeste ☆⭒ — Anna Papalia is a great resource that talks about what to say and what not to say in an interview. One of the things she says is "If they arent allowed to ask it dont say it. Its all things they can use against you"
i.e I am a mom of 3 .....
    - Jasmine ☕ — Wow ...she's got some gold out there. Just looked her up and these are definitely mistakes I've made: https://www.tiktok.com/@anna..papalia/video/7525232648474610958
    - ⭒☆ Celeste ☆⭒ — She helped me feel better about my interviews
- Straine — Remember, if it takes you 60 jobs, your expected return on each coffee chat to network is like $400, paid off when you get the $100k career
- suicyco (Micah) — never bank on a job you don't have, keep on truckin and looking for other work, you did your part... reach out every so often but keep movin on
- Oka (Class 47) — Do you think putting Harvard's CS50 on our resume is a good way to pass the education filter?
    - Lynda — Harvard CS50 is what you should know when you start a CS degree
    - suicyco (Micah) — I would only if you actually enrolled, doing it online does not mean you went to Harvard
- Justin (Class 63) — check meetup.com, lu.ma. eventbrite. Find events in your area. Check virtual events in cities near you. Go to all of them! Find a company you want to work for, find the employees and follow them on twitter. Like their posts and engage with their content, can lead to coffee chats eventually referrals. In person is huge and leads to opportunities if you can handle them 
- ichtragebrille (Amanda) — one of my senior bullet points: Led complete redesign of legacy widget system causing developers to spend time addressing continuous customer complaints (40+ components, up to 10 years of technical debt). Delivered technical assessment, timeline projections, and architecture proposal that secured budget allocation. Upon completion, saw 100% reduction in customer complaints, freeing up developer time and increasing productivity by 15%.
- ichtragebrille (Amanda) — Yep my staff engineer husband has had to learn speaking out about his own actions this year and now he's much better in alignment to become a principle next year
- Mal — Many groups  I follow have switched from meetup.com to lu.ma
- Straine — Speaking of jailbreaking, I just learned the other night that the reason so many companies are pushing people to use their app instead of their websites is because it's illegal to modify the app.  They can't stop plugins that work with their site, so they do apps where you're not allowed to.

## Slido

- I'm networking/hitlisting but most postings are for senior roles now. Should I just apply to them? I was applying to jr/regular roles, but less of them now?
    - If you're waiting for jobs to be listed on job boards, you're missing 70% of the jobs
    - Network so that you get in front of jobs before they're listed
    - Build relationships, if they post senior roles, they'll post junior roles to go along 
    with them
    - Blind applying is just wasting time, network your way in
    - Straine — Why not apply to the senior roles?  They might hire you for that, or they might go "hey, we think we're going to promote this team member instead.  Would you be interested in taking their role?" You lose nothing but a bit of time to apply
    - Legend — I'm applying for so many, some of them I didn't even notice their senior level. Just don't know how I land interviews for them? 😂
    - Straine — You'll get interviews for more positions than you think!  You may be the only candidate that applies with any experience that will help at all. Never know!
    - JB — Gotta remember, hitting apply CAN work, but all it takes is ONE person playing the networking game to invalidate everyone who pressed apply.
        - Straine — Or one person who also hit apply with slightly better credentials, which you'd beat with networking
    - suicyco (Micah) — also lots of job posts are just legal requirements, when they already have candidates lined up internally or via networking

- I graduated 10 yrs ago (BS) since then have been doing stuff freelance,solo projects.I dont qualify for senior jobs& cant find many entry level jobs. what to do
    - How do you craft the XP you do have so you open yourself up to senior roles
    - Take stock of what you've done so you can frame your XP in a positive light
        - Use the ChatGPT to help
        - Do your 100Hours project, network, stay current with tech news to open yourself up to opportunities
    - Use HiringCafe first, then local, then global
    - Kara Prado — It took me 1,200 applications 🤢 to get my UX/UI Design job and I’m surprised it even happened. I warn everyone to not be a button clicker after seeing the light with Leon’s way.
    - Jake_Haver_of_Catz (Class 20) — Also networking in is important. Lots of folks may have had an easy in to job 1 but when they needed job 2 or 3 they’ve found out why having a network matters. All seeds you plant today can make a huge difference for decades to come
    - _GDaemon_Class 12 — also go to job fare events guys :catnod:  sometimes its so much easier to make good impression face-face

- For a 7-year role at one company, should my resume have one long bulleted list of accomplishments, or should it be broken down by job titles or projects?
    - Depends on what else you're trying to fit into your resume
    - If its the bulk of your XP, then break it into parts to show progression
    - If you have other pertinent positions, shorten it so you can list others

- Will I be barred from applying to big companies if I have used multiple different resumes with different dates / titles for the same jobs on my resume?
    - You're expected to customize your resume, but don't do that its like lying
    - You might get flagged in the ATS or something like Workday
        - People can look up your title
            - They ask where did you work, what was your title, when did you work, are you available to be hired
    - At opportunities, if you don't get a big raise each year, fight for a title change

- I'm trying to target more midlevel and senior roles (dont have that many years of exp), what are some things i can do in my banki answers to show i'm senior lvl
    - Senior roles are about impact, your bullet points should show those, especially your first bullet points
        - Don't want "increased efficiency by 33%"
        - You want the number of users, money, something that shows you have good leadership & can get things done
        - The more of those bangers you have the easier it is to get roles
        - Having a senior title is important here, fight for the titles, it makes it easier to get other senior opportunities
    - Being senior means you get things done w/o asking for help from others as much
    - ichtragebrille (Amanda) — generally the higher you go the less you code and the more you delegate/lead architectural decisisons
    - Lynda — for seniors, have a look at Multipliers and 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, the language is very leader oriented and it's the language and stories you want to use in interviews

- If there's a in demand tec in my area, would it be a good idea to make daily posts like "day 1 learning x, day 2," or is that a red flag for other swe jobs?
    - Don't put day 1 of learning, but you can put what you're learning as you learn it
    - If a recruiter is hiring for TypeScript & your most recent post is day 1 or day 2 of learning it, they're not going to hire you
    - If you have a body of work & they can see you're adding new skills, then maybe
    - There's no harm in sharing what you're learning, but the optics are important, companies want people who can hit the ground running
    - suicyco (Micah) — no matter how far you are into your career, there is always something new to learn, nothing weird about that
    - You can show the projects you're building, that looks better - its about the framing
    - Jimbo — wanted to build something with next.js,  biult a project and is now it's hosted. I made a post about it a long time about it on linkedin going to post a follow up once I hook up the smtp email delivery. Def a learning experience, but the website looks nice

- Can you speak to having a freelance role at the top of the resume vs an open source role (eg code for America brigade)
    - Work XP is more premium to recruiters than open source
    - They want to know that someone paid you do program

- I noticed that your CAR responses were enticing, yet high-level sort of way. Are there any tips you can provide about your mode of thinking when crafting them?
    - Just thinking about the best possible light to talk about something that enables recruiters to ask more questions
    - Don't put all the facts & figures out there, let them think about it & see things in a bigger, grander way
    - They can dig then, if they want & you can give them more
    - Don't give too much up front so you don't run out of things to talk about/respond with
    - noriLOXic (J. Holly Y.) — In the neurodivergent space, what people say "DON'T INFODUMP."
    - Straine — Craft your response in a way so that they ask the question that you want them to ask, if they ask.  Tease the thing you want to talk more about and they'll ask about that more often than not
    - noriLOXic (J. Holly Y.) — Give people space to ask for more.
    - suicyco (Micah) — and hopefully your story spirals into a full nerd out session where you dig deep and the interviewer now very much wants to work with you lol

- Would you considering labeling a gap as a health sabbatical to be snitching on yourself.
    - Label it as family obligations so you don't snitch on yourself

- As a mid-lev dev (started 2020) how can I do coffee chats & build projects w/out the newbie "smell"? Ppl think I'm looking for advice on breaking in. Im in bruh
    - Just build, there's only a noobie smell if you're building very simple, small things
    - Build real apps using new technologies
    - christine — What’s considered real apps that will stand out to recruiters? Are CRUD apps enough or does it have to incorporate something more to get recognized for an interview
        - Lexi (needs to relax) — CRUD is a good place to start. Having it relevant to your narrative and experience helps.
    - LeahTCodes🐊✨ — But also if you're building simple things but they're still different from what other people are building and it shows off your interests/background, those don't give off the newbie smell as much as like tutorial projects that everyone else has on their portfolios
    - tehuberjohn — Most companies are making products, an ecommerce, or a portal is more impactful imo
    - Elyse (Lurk) — i used to go to game jams, learned a lot about converting needs into features/functionality

- In an internship, I’m 1 of 3 people in meetings w Figma/Netflix/etc. Current job can’t hire me, how do I finesse full-time at these partners outside of work?
    - Add people to LinkedIn, engage online, become friends, engage in coffee chats

- Laid off for 5 months. Spent a lot of this time learning game dev while hunting for swe jobs. Is this something I should mention in anyway? Hobbies on a resume?
    - It has a smell if you're not already a programmer
    - Have to be able to talk about it & show how it'd be a real win & why you'd be a good developer at their company
    - Not all of those skills are transferrable
    - Modesto — Wrote scripts in C# for unity and it did not translate to react ngl
    - Modesto — One thing I learned a lot was version control when working on an indie game with friends/colleagues! Merge conflicts for game dev are so bad lmao

- How do you CAR "why do you want to work for this company?"
    - Before you interview, know everything about the company
    - Know what they're working on & how you can contribute to it

- Where did you get your effortless confidence, and how can I get some of that.
    - Practice, help people every day
    - Don't care about what people who aren't important to you think
    - Get experience in sales
    - Know that at the end of the day no one will remember you
    - wgreenihrcorp — Immune to critism.   From the book Think and Grow Rich
    - @aaronboyd47 — Read The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F**ck
    - Drew (Class 35) — Comes with meeting people and just choosing who you choose to associate with. Everyone else is just a person moving through the matrix.
    - tehuberjohn — Once you convince yourself you have value, even if people don't see it, they can't take that away from you.
    - Lark__ — stoicism have great tools for this
    - Leticia_codes_now — My husband is like that, He tells  me if they are not washing my dirty underwear if  I am not married to them I don't care 😂 lol
    - bumpy_lumps — trust me just get a few bad interviews where they're jerks and it will get easier to stop caring. Once you have some wins it really doesn't matter what people think - you have verifiable data about how good you actually are
    - Straine — I love Mark's writing in general.  His "F*** Yes or No" thesis is one of the things I live by, along with Mel Robbins' "Let Them" theory.