# 2025-06-06 Friday - Tea Spill with @shaeInTheCloud

Hey @everyone  :kermittea: THE TEA SPILLITH In 60 mins w/ 100Devs Alum & Customer Engineer at Google!  :kermittea:


Come meet @shaeInTheCloud and hear about their journey from a career as a Dental Hygienist to a Customer Engineer @ Google ($225k TC)! 

They have so many amazing tips on how to learn, create content, land amazing opportunities, and I know you will walk away with impactful pieces you can apply to your job search too! 

They want to SPILL ALL THE TEA! The good, the bad, and what it is like to get hired RIGHT NOW! 


:pikahello:  We are meeting on our Discord Stage in 60 mins (5:30pm ET): https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1380616715984965662


🚨 Never Recorded, so they can share all the spicy details and answer all your questions. So don't miss out! 🚨 


🙏🏾 Instead of checking-in, please follow this brave soul who agreed to share all the nitty gritty details: 
https://www.youtube.com/@ShaeInTheCloud
https://www.tiktok.com/@shaeinthecloud
https://www.instagram.com/ShaeInTheCloud/

Then come ask all your questions that are 🔥  TOO HOT FOR TWITCH!  🔥 

👉🏾 Ask your #TEASPILL related questions here: https://app.sli.do/event/fEadxsxouotBHVgMwGoc2K

👉🏾  Also, new podcast episode just dropped: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wV1eumg9gzI (Is HTML, CSS & JavaScript STILL Enough in 2025?)

## First message

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1380659469502906510

## Notes

- Got into tech when 100Devs started
    - Was a dental hygienist for 8 years, pivoted during COVID b/c was in the house w/nothing to do
    - Can't remember where she saw 100Devs, but the first episode with Leon dancing hooked her & the spaghetti story
    - She went to college, had 1 semester left & didn't finish
    - Started in tech by building websites, just like how 100Devs recommended
    - Got frustrated a lot & almost threw laptop out the windows every other class
- Wasn't good at math, is a nerdy-nerd, loves reading at Barnes & Noble
- Took one computer science class in college & immediately withdrew
- Got to college & didn't take it seriously, got pregnant at 19 & had her first kid at 20
    - The father joined the military, they got married, lived in Italy & Kansas
    - Went to Westchester University in Kansas
    - Lived from base-to-base at the military
- Says its important for women to have their own income
- During COVID, they weren't accepting almost any patients except for emergencies
- She was scrolling TikTok or Twitter & saw someone talking about 100Devs & got interested
    - Saw a black woman who was a lawyer & never got to see her daughter
    - That person pivoted into tech & said that if she can do it, anyone can
    - Saw people talking about the 100Devs community
    - Went to Walmart, got books & a pencil & was ready
- Signed up for a bootcamp, the first 2 weeks were free & then you're locked in
    - Once you're employed, you owe 30% of your check for a certain amount of time
    - She switched to 100Devs
    - Seeing someone you can relate to helps to make things understandable, made rocket science make sense
    - Leon talking about the ups & downs & the valley was real
    - She was introducing herself as a fullstack developer after 2 classes & Hello World
        - HTML was easy
        - CSS made her think its not for her, things got complicated & she had to adjust expectations
            - Imposter syndrome hit
            - The community helped her to make it through
            - Seeing that she couldn't fix things, but could still go to the next class & maybe learn how to fix the things she was stuck on helped her
- Started the cohort
    - Got through imposter syndrome with the community, saw people who were so far ahead when they started at the same time
    - Restarted class at least 12 times
    - Having grace for yourself helps you to get through things, there's no shame in repeating things & making sure that you have mastery over a subject
    - Leon: some people have CS degrees here, some are seeing code for the first time, comparison is the thief of joy
- She needs structure, went to Philly Military Academy, it was only around for 4 years
    - She tells herself that she's not going to get the Benz or Audi or $20 for food if she doesn't complete things
    - She was still a mom, was up early, going through Anki between 5-7AM
    - Pomodoro method got her through things
    - She went to school at 100Devs when her kiddo was in school
    - Feels a sense of accomplishment when she finishes a task or lesson
        - Leon: Give yourself a set time & schedule, treat it like school, give yourself a sense of consistency

### Moving from 100Devs to work

- Getting to the end of 100Devs
    - Doesn't advise double majoring
    - She was in university for cloud engineering while doing 100Devs
    - Started 100Devs to get the bag
    - Wanted her kids to see her making money, wanted to finish her degree
        - Saw people making $100k
        - Got certs in cloud
        - Started networking (Black Tech Twitter), following people who looked like her
            - Asked people what they did, it was DevOps, cloud + programming
        - Found a mentor on Twitter
            - Introduced herself as Shae, who knew cloud & programming, said she just wanted direction
            - A white guy helped her, sent her a $20 ebook on the first day
                - She'll get the book name, it was something like DevOps for Dummies (a simple book)
                    - It stated exactly what you need to get into tech
            - Mentor knew someone who was CEO of a group who was looking for a data analyst, paid $60/hr
                - Got contract gig for $50/hr
                - She asked how to submit hours, they said we don't submit hours, just send invoice for how much we owe you
        - Leon: Everything you did was not a shortcut, it was a slow, consistent grind
            - Reaching out for help, taking advantage of opportunities, getting up early, being consistent

### Networking

- Networking is so big, 45% of it is who you know
    - Who will give you a reference
    - Who will talk about you before you're even in the room
    - AWS was big for her, Pearson has free classes
        - She asked questions, she reached out to anyone who was talking, they were apt to talk to her because they saw her talking
        - Wanted them to see that she's enthuiastic, wanted them to see her face at least twice
        - Put on a different personality to exude confidence
        - Told people that she enjoyed their conversations, loved learning what they're learning
        - Showed her passion, asked about people's backgrounds, people like talking about themselves
    - Someone reached out w/an opening at their job (an internship for 6 months)
        - That person already talked about her to the team, said she's a programmer & is grinding
        - The process wasn't long, it was a talk, a leetcode, framework discussions
        - They don't expect you to know everything at an internship, they want to mold you
        - They threw her into the wilderness with network engineers
        - A lot of fake it until you make it until she met her mentor who had been doing it since dinosaur days
        - Internship turned into a full-time offer
        - Let manager know she was still interested in cloud, they saw her getting certs
        - Made a special role for her to move their services to the cloud
    - Became a devOps engineer, but really was a full-stack engineer creating apps for her team every day
- Every time she met people, they asked how she got an internship
    - She's not an introvert/extrovert, she's an extrovert when she wants to be
    - She made 2 videos about it on TikTok
        - One was about how we need more black women in cloud, got a free cert from it
        - IBM, Google have free materials about it, they want people in the industry
    - Started creating videos while she was working a full-time job
        - Talking about what she's learning, people liked seeing them
        - Worked with MongoDB, AWS: AWS paid her $3k for one video
            - Its a process, they don't pay you until 30 days after the video, then it takes months to process
    - She did that first job for 2 years but kept networking, thought she wanted to do developer advocacy
        - Can start 100Devs & use those skills in other roles, so many start in one position & end up somewhere else
        - DevOps, Customer Engineer, other things
- Got job at Google from going to a conference 3 years ago
    - There were people, recruiters from FAANG companies, lots of engineers there
    - Asked at the conference "what about people like me? people w/o a CS degree"
        - The person who answered started crying & told her "You matter!"
        - She doesn't usually cry, only really for her kids & cat videos
        - That person said to come see her after the conference
        - Told her that you still have advantages from networking with people like her
            - That she'd network her with people she knows
            - Told other people w/o degrees to come see her
        - She wasn't ready to network with these people, wasn't ready for the rejection
        - Got rejected from Google 5 times & Amazon 7 times
            - She only wanted her foot in the door
            - AWS almost offered her a developer advocacy position, made it to last round
                - Make content to support developers & have a technical background/understanding
                - Advocates look for developer pain points for their tools & bring that to the company to help correct those issues
                - AWS instituted return-to-office, she saw the person in front of her get the position
        - Getting a FAANG job was something that she needed for her own validation
        - That lady reached out to her & said that she knows she doesn't feel ready but told her to still apply for the customer engineer position & that she had the skills for it, told her she believes in her journey & wants to see her succeed
            - Told her what they'd ask her, told her how to prepare
            - She studied her butt off, 5 rounds of Google interviews, the technical was hard
            - As soon as you say you know something, they pull it back & pull it back again
                - They want to see how many levels deep you can go
                - The deeper you go, the more they pay you

### Offer

- Google comped her more than $220k
- Base salary is $150k
- Customer relations is sales
- Her partner is the business side, she's the technical person
    - She shows them Google services, shows them how to optimize, reduce costs & latency
- She wasn't customer-facing at first, but knows how to turn it on
- Has a list of like 70 customers, doesn't see them all every day
    - Sees maybe 3 customers a day
    - Workd with them, sometimes it can be 2 months, sometimes 8 months
    - Wasn't supposed to be with customers until week 3, but was really with them since day 1
- Ultimate goal is still to be a developer advocate
    - Met with someone in developer relations
    - Told her that some of their best advocates were in customer relations first
    - Google has this 20% project program where you can do things that you're interested in
        - These things can help with promotions & other rewards
    - Network with other teams, ask if you can join on their calls
- Leon: Forward Deploy Engineers is the next hot thing

### What else was helpful on your journey

- Please network
- Document your journey, build your brand, you're the company
    - Have to show people why they should hire you
- She talks about things on LinkedIn all the time
    - Doesn't pretend to be an expert
    - Shows what she's building
    - Joins DevOps challenges & invites people to go through things with them
- Talk about companies, tag the companies, go through their pages
- Go on LinkedIn, don't go on the JOB section
    - Go to the search bar, type "software engineer, hiring" or whatever role
    - Look at the posts, see who's hiring, these people don't post a lot, only when they're hiring
    - Filter by posts & then filter by date, so you'll be one of the first people they talk to
    - Thank them, tell them what they shared really aligns with you, tell them you're going to DM them
        - You can potentially skip the online process, send a resume
    - Tell them "I see that you're hiring at xxx, I'm a developer at xxx & I have some ideas about how I think I can help your company"
        - Even if they don't hire you, they'll want to take that to their managers
        - Tell them you want to talk to them about ideas that you think they can benefit from
        - Ask ChatGPT how it thinks you can help them, tell it who you spoke with & ask for 10 bullet points about ideas you can present, research them online EVERYWHERE
- Talk about what you're building out loud, wherever you feel comfortable (Twitter, Tiktok, etc.)
- Leon: This is a unique approach, instant value propositions, interesting way to get your foot in the door

## Chat

- HunkDory (lurker) — My tip is if youre feeling intimidated or like youre underskilled compared to others....thank your lucky stars youre around people you can learn so much from! Its a good thing!!
    - Straine — Spot on. I've heard it put as "if you're the smartest person in the room, you're in the wrong room".
- willdev — Comparing on the job is just as wild( then you realize even the 20yr senior has imposter syndrome)
- Dillon 🌈 Dingus (Hunt/500 hour) — stumble on the css, stumble on the javascript, stumble on the typescript, stumble on the react... next step profits baby
- Lisa — I think another benchmark would be to looka t where you were 1 year ago vs where you are now
- Acedia(Class 6) — I do co-working streams, they all use the pomodoro
- Teron — What does your Anki look like? Then vs Now
- Straine — I've yet to finish an assignment or project here and felt like it was perfect, sometimes the best measure of success is, "done".
- ϟӍҶՖ16475 — I think I need to build confidence before I even consider doing freelance work.
    - willdev — Just shoot ur shot. The first few clients make it click.
- Straine — The best tip or trick is slogging, there's just no way around it.  Gain here comes after pain and hard work, just like physical exercise
- ruad0001 (Lesson 16) — https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/credentials/browse/?roles=administrator&credential_types=certification
- ruad0001 (Lesson 16) — https://aws.amazon.com/training/skills-centers/
- suicyco (Micah) — in the 90's it was about who you knew, good jobs came to you from your rep and friends, same as it ever was
- willdev — I try to befriend every dev I meet internally!!!! I love having devs on my side!!
- eric lurk — I'm from the future. You still have to network in 2077
- Shaxbeard — I am learning AWS now - you can be a full stack dev AND do all of your own dev ops too. It's so powerful.
- _GDaemon_Class 12 — I legit met 3 company owners this week and talked them all into buying my services building them websites :kekw: so got them in pocket luckily no dates yet
- Modesto — That part! Make yourself known!
- Straine — This is the biggest life tip for conferences.  Everyone shows up and watches the talks, but there's nothing worse than the feeling of standing up there talking and feeling like everyone's just there because they have to be.  Making people feel like their talk was good, interesting, and helpful will make them feel good.  Even if it leads nowhere beyond that, it's a win.
- ⭒☆ Celeste ☆⭒🌈 — People may not remember what you say, but they remember how you make them feel
- Dillon 🌈 Dingus (Hunt/500 hour) — yeah I think my problem is i'm just straight up making friends at networking events and not using anyone for anything lol
- Straine — Nobody is loved more than the person that is truly interested in other people, you're awesome!
- ϟӍҶՖ16475 — That defines me as well. Introverted extrovert.
    - jasonetorres — You turn it on when you want something
    - jasonetorres — You want a job your why outweighs that what
- slayrum — something to consider also is how you identify yourself. it's a big thing where if you identify as an introvert, you behave in line with that self-concept. how you talk about yourself matters
- Teron — Introverts can be very outgoing, but it's what their energy level is like once they stop.
    - tehuberjohn — The only real difference is that extroverts get energized from spending time with other people, where as introverts get sapped from it. You can be super outgoing and friendly and introverted
    - Dillon 🌈 Dingus (Hunt/500 hour) — introversion isn't the same as social anxiety. I am also introverted but I have a blast hanging out with people.. it just happens to be super exhausting for me
    - Teron — What I learned to do is find something that gives me my energy back. Lofi, Anime, walks.
    - Shiru — I’m really introvert and socially awkward, but after 3 years after starting 100devs I finally found a programming job and it was through a discord server connecting over smash bros melee.
        - So for the other social anxious out there don’t give up! Find the place where you are ok talking just a little bit about yourself and saying that you’re a software engineer(it took me more than 1 year to be comfortable typing this). It doesn’t need to be Linkedin or a conference
- willdev — Heck yes. 508 is free. This gets you contract work!!!
    - Shan B  (Lurk - Hunt) — What was 508?
    - willdev — 508 compliance. Dod contact work loves this cert( also big companies)... I usually don't like certs... but this and comptia are gold w big companies
- mray[fCC] — Live. Laugh. Reorg.
- Straine — Oh man, this advice was the same as something my graduate advisor told me.  It's not a matter of if you fail, everyone fails at some point.  The question is simply a matter of failing at a high enough level.  They'll keep pushing until you stumble, that's part of the process.  They want to see how you handle being out of your element
- AWTom — A friend of mine is telling me to apply for sales engineer roles. I have 3yoe as a residential real estate agent
    - suicyco (Micah) — its where the sales person has someone who can talk the actual technology
    - suicyco (Micah) — because sales people are great at promising impossible things, presales engineers gotta reel that in lol
- Janet/GhibliMagic — this reminds me, another tip is when you go to a talk, tag the speaker and mention what you felt were the highlights. That will also expose you to some of their followers too as well as making them feel warm and fuzzy
- adrianmacz — 
    1. Search “Software Engineer Hiring”,
    1. Filter - Posts,
    1. Filter - Latest,
    1. Comment on post “Thank you for posting this, I will be sending a DM your way”,
    1. “Really great ideas is it cool if I run them by you”
    - Modesto — literally using that tip right now and BRO theres so many niche/small posts for people hiring!
- chonkdev (lurk) — LOL, I told them x, make me not a liar Mr. GPT please. love it.
    - Brittbrat — I was just going to ask what are the ideas to tell them when you send that message lmaoooo got it! Chat gpt going to be working overtime now!
- chonkdev (lurk) — I was always the person that thought the work spoke for itself; we're on year 5+ of that approach, it doesn't lol.
- ϟӍҶՖ16475 — I might be overstepping here, but I think every software engineer should strive to create their own startup.

## Slido

- What would you change about your approach to what got you into Google and why?
    - Not really, have to really go through the mud & figure it out
    - Work your way backwards, look at what they're looking for specifically & see where you are with it
        - Even if you don't have 100% of the things on the list, still apply
    - There's a limit on how many times you can apply at a FAANG in a certain timeframe
    - Try your hardest to get a referral
    - Look at startups, she was with a startup that paid her base $170k for a month before Google called
        - She DID tell them that she was still applying at other companies
        - Suddenly lots of interviews started coming in
        - They said that she can either get her last paycheck or keep all of the equipment, she kept the equipment: newest Macbook, $3k camera, $2k something else that she'd been wanting
    - She optimized her LinkedIn, put Developer Advocate everywhere
        - She had a demo ready & was overprepared, a small company gave her an interview after 1 month
        - Google & other FAANG take a long time