# 2025-03-18 Tuesday: Jobuary DAY 22

Hey @everyone Huddle Up! 💰JOBUARY2025 starts in 60 mins (in 2 minutes your local time)!

:ricflair: Let's Finish JOBUARY STRONG (last week)

And talk about: 
:bluedot: Community Project
:bluedot: Community Resources
:bluedot: The Chosen One - as a community let's help someone get a job! 

👉🏾 Join us here at 2:30pm ET: https://discord.com/events/735923219315425401/1351647547013206148

👉🏾 And ask your #JOBUARY2025 RELATED questions here: https://app.sli.do/event/kGFXWtVXmZaNVcjEJVGek8

## First message

https://discord.com/channels/735923219315425401/959571473188659280/1351663516750315642

## Notes

- Leah just signed another offer 15 mins ago & might get a call from them during the huddle, she's on stage now
    - Base salary is $15k more than other offer, its remote
    - Frontend engineer / Dev rel
    - Dream company
    - Didn't ask for a resume & job was never posted
    - Networked her way in
        - Messaged last September
        - He connected her with VP of Marketing since Oct
        - Tried to hire her in Nov but there was no headcount
            - He messaged her on Friday & said there might be headcount
            - Said there might be a role for marketing engineer, got headcount for it the night before
            - Told her she has an interview on Monday (yesterday)
                - That person was on vacation, but he talked to people & she had 3 interviews
    - Got the offer today
    - They told the CEO that she doesn't need to meet with him b/c he SEES her online all the time (posting her stuff on Twitter, etc.)
    - She was the first person to see the job desc, it never got posted
    - Keeps the attitude of whatever she doesn't get isn't meant for her
    - Rosi (lurking) — 25 interviews, 9 individual companies, 2 offers
    - She had a conversation, not a normal technical because the people who would have given her the technical knew her skills already, she'd been on one of their podcasts, etc.
    - Design had concerns about her recreating stuff from Figma so she recreated a landing page from one of their Figmas in 3 hours & shared it
    - The position was supposed to be engineering, but they made it engineering & dev rel in case there was any downtime
- Marketing companies have engineers in them
    - They hire first & don't have technicals that are as hard as the engineering roles
- Leon wants to figure out a community project for the 100Devs community
    - Wants to start next week
    - Once we know how to do one project, there will be more
- Leon will release the ATS resume & other things promised during Jobuary
    - Wants to release it as a living document that the community can update
    - Multiple docs/resumes: a senior role resume might be different from others
    - Will need a maintainer who keeps on top of updates
- Wants to help someone (the chosen one) publicly
    - Workshop things together, goes out into the world & tries things
    - Community works together to get someone hired & everyone learns from it
- You don't gain anything by wallowing in the trough of sorrow
    - All the good things come at the end of it
- Jasmine is on stage
    - Wants to put the hackathon project on her portfolio
        - https://vision-vault-3n86.onrender.com/
    - Feels odd about it b/c it needs a lot of features
    - Wants Leon to look at it & tell her where to put her efforts
        - She can do it herself, she has the ability to analyze
        - Get it to a point where its visually appealing & has some core functionality
        - Most people looking at a portfolio want to know
            - Can you build CRUD apps
            - Can you ship something
            - Most people aren't going to spend a lot of time looking at your projects
    - Straine — You don't have to implement every feature all at once.  Once it's got one or two features, put it up.  If you want to add another feature later, add it later.  A project doesn't have to be perfect to be something you showcase
    - IndifferentGhost — I would also add a blurb or description as to what it is.
    - Dr.Acula27 | Class53 | HUNT — on that note, maybe an about page
    - eric lurk — I like having a separate landing page from a template that sort of works as an introduction before getting into the real project
    - suicyco (Micah) — ya the 100hours project gold is the technical communication, the nerd talk to get as deep into as they need to know you are the real deal
    - Danny Thompson:
        - Everything you do is setting you up with something to have a conversation about
        - Talk about it in a technical & non-technical manner
        - Make it have a business-use case
        - Nothing you build will make you a slam-dunk for a junior developer
        - Make sure you have a way to talk about your approach towards your solution
- Rai Bread is on stage
    - Bootcamp for people who survived human trafficking
    - Wants to tweak cover letter to apply for the bootcamp, small 10-person non-prof
        - Last time cover letter was too long (450 words)
            - Leon likes cover letters, use it as an exercise to show how past XP aligns with current goals & the org, don't overthink it, focus on the value add that you bring
            - He had an implicit referral, so include that person, make them part of the journey
            - Show how you have the collection of skills they're looking for
    - Wrote his 45-page backend blog b/c Leon recommended writing about it


## Chat

- James Jahner (class 52) — anyone know the open sourse Data structures and algorithms school leon mentioned, i can't find it
    - SageZeroOne — Could it be one of these?
        - https://web.archive.org/web/20210616161653/https://scotch.io/courses/the-ultimate-guide-to-javascript-algorithms
        - https://frontendmasters.com/courses/algorithms/
        - https://frontendmasters.com/courses/advanced-algorithms/
    - PhiltheMean — https://web.archive.org/web/20200922121750/https://scotch.io/courses/the-ultimate-guide-to-javascript-algorithms/a-gentle-introduction-to-algorithms-and-data-structures
    - James Jahner (class 52) — i saw those, but i though he showed a school that open school their stuff like MIT and Harvard.
        - IndifferentGhost — You're probably talking about CS50 from harvard: https://pll.harvard.edu/course/cs50-introduction-computer-science
- Straine — Made  a friend regardless of whether they had a job available or not, that's what the best coffee chats do.  When you make a friend, they want you to win, and if they can help, they will!
- Janet/GhibliMagic — if fear is stopping you, maybe try doing little things first! aim to message just one person to get you over that wall of fear. Or if messaging feels like too much, focus on commenting on peoples post until it feels more doable!
    - Khan (class53) — it's not fear, but more like not knowing how to speak to strangers without it feeling awkward and stuff like that
    - AprilMayShine — The awkwardness in icebreakers is real when they don't know you
    - Janet/GhibliMagic — fair, yeah esp LinkedIn where you wanna sound professional but actually also sound like a human feels...weird at times to walk that line. I feel  u
    - suicyco (Micah) — there is no possible way a human can know how awesome you are when you are just a line item in a huge list of candidates
    - choir241 (Richard) — Follow up messages are so important. Don't stop, keep posting, keep following-up. People notice.
    - marciac95 — I’m just hearing resilience
    - Carmen — Take action, don't get stuck on rejection, keep going, and network to get work
- Scar — I recommend everyone to go through a free project management course. It has been super helpful professionally and personally
- shaxbeard (hunt) — I have hacked up Traversy's e-commerce project in React/Redux about 8 ways for different interviews. Nobody seems to know that I got it from Traversy in the first place 🙂
- Straine — https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer
- Straine — I remember a discussion of that in cohort 2 - it's comfort in feeling like you're worth 2k versus 500 dollars.  You're worth more than you think.
- IndifferentGhost — It's weird, but the less you charge the harder your clients will be.
- suicyco (Micah) — if the client went to a big company to design and build a site, they are going to be quoted $100k+, so your "well, hows $1000 sound?" is a massive bargain
- CorkyTheCactus — A good 100hours projects solves a pain point from your background, connects your non-technical experience

## Slido

- Will writing technical blogs and posting them on Linkedin help for when orgs i am interviewing with look at my profile? Kinda like Leah and her talks?
    - Yes
    - Leah answered this fundamentally today
    - If someone sees you giving a talk at a JS conference, they assume the conference did some kind of filtering to know you know JS, etc.
    - Lexi (Class 35) — What blogging platform are we using? Substack?
        - dvkr — astro + github pages ftw
        - suicyco (Micah) — making your own blog is great dev experience
        - fa0s — Fellow Astro blogger here 👋
        - Don't use Medium b/c of the paywall
        - Build your own into your portfolio, you own everthing & its good for SEO
        Janet/GhibliMagic — on hashnode and dev.to you can tell it where the canonical url is (aka your blog)
- I have a technical that is more backend, what should I do to best prepare as my last role was mostly front end?
    - Know their stack & do a crash course
    - Learn some light system design
    - Banki backend questions